docs: login rule docs (#21195)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/login-rules.mdx

  without needing to modify claims in your IDP.
- When your IDP provides a large number of traits with many values, all of these
  traits will be included in your user's SSH certificates and JWTs, which can
  become too large for some third-party applications to handle.  Login Rules can
  filter out uneccessary traits and keep just the ones you need.
- When you have multiple [Role Templates](./guides/role-templates/) repeating
  the same logic to combine and transform external traits, consider using Login
  Rules to consolidate the logic to one place and simplify your Roles.

This is all possible to do completely within Teleport, without requiring any
changes to your organization's IDP.

Check out the [Login Rules guide](./login-rules/guide/) for a quick walkthrough
that will show you how to write, test, and add the first Login Rule to your
cluster.

When you're ready to take full advantage of Login Rules in your cluster, see the
[Login Rules Reference](./login-rules/reference/) for details on the expression
language that powers them.

## FAQ

### Which users do Login Rules apply to?

Login Rules apply to all users logging in via OIDC, SAML, or GitHub.

> The do not apply to local Teleport users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They do not apply to local Teleport users.
```
I missed this one on the first pass

### When are Login Rules evaluated?

Login Rules are evaluated once during each user login, after receiving the
claims or assertions from your IDP, before mapping claims/assertions to Teleport
roles, and before generating user certificates.
If Login Rules modify and traits used for role mapping, the role mapping may be
affected.

> ### Can I define custom helper functions for the predicate language?

Author: added a brief summary with an example to give some context [be34266](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/21195/commits/be34266e80fb9bbf917a8ebef8ea8ded09739bf2)

---
title: Login Rules (Preview)
description: Transform User Traits with Login Rules
layout: tocless-doc
---

<Admonition type="warning" title="Preview">
  Login Rules are currently in Preview mode.
</Admonition>

When users log in to your Teleport cluster with a configured SSO provider,
**Login Rules** can transform the traits provided by your IDP to meet your needs
for configuring access within Teleport.

Some use cases for Login Rules are:

- When you need to modify a user trait based on logical rules, like
  "users in group `db-admins` should also be added to group `db-users`",
  Login Rules provide a powerful expression language to make these changes

>   without needing to modify claims in your IDP.

Reviewer 2: Looks like our docs are inconsistent in their use of `IDP` vs `IdP`. Would be nice to fix this.

```
 teleport/docs on master [$!]  ❯
ag -c IdP
img/IBM/IBM_HA.svg:1
img/server-access/getting-started-diagram.svg:1
pages/access-controls/sso/oidc.mdx:1
pages/access-controls/sso.mdx:1
pages/includes/sso/idp-initiated.mdx:3
pages/connect-your-client/introduction.mdx:1
pages/server-access/guides/ssh-pam.mdx:1
pages/reference/cli.mdx:7
 teleport/docs on master [$!]  ➜
ag -c IDP
pages/access-controls/sso/okta.mdx:1
pages/access-controls/sso.mdx:1
pages/reference/cli.mdx:2
pages/reference/terraform-provider.mdx:1
```

Author: switched to IdP

- When your IDP provides a large number of traits with many values, all of these
  traits will be included in your user's SSH certificates and JWTs, which can
  become too large for some third-party applications to handle.  Login Rules can
  filter out uneccessary traits and keep just the ones you need.
- When you have multiple [Role Templates](./guides/role-templates/) repeating
  the same logic to combine and transform external traits, consider using Login
  Rules to consolidate the logic to one place and simplify your Roles.

> This is all possible to do completely within Teleport, without requiring any
> changes to your organization's IDP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Login Rules can solve these problems without requiring changes to your
organization's IDP.
```
